Improve overview for workload APIs (#37593)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/_index.md

{{< glossary_tooltip text="workloads" term_id="workload" >}}
and the components of those workloads.

Ultimately, your applications run as containers inside
{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="Pod" text="Pods" >}}; however, managing individual
Pods would be a lot of effort. For example, if a `Pod` fails, you probably want to
run a new Pod to replace it. Kubernetes can do that for you.

You use Kubernetes API to create a workload
{{< glossary_tooltip text="object" term_id="object" >}} that represent a higher level
abstraction than a `Pod`, and then the Kubernetes
{{< glossary_tooltip text="control plane" term_id="control-plane" >}} automatically manages
Pod objects on your behalf, based on the specification for the workload object you defined.

The built-in APIs for managing workloads are:

[`Deployment`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/) (and, indirectly, [`ReplicaSet`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/replicaset/)),
the most common way to run an application on your cluster.
A Deployment is a good fit for managing a stateless application workload on your cluster:
_stateless_ means that any {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="Pod" >}} in the Deployment is interchangeable,

> and can be replaced if needed.

Reviewer: I'm not sure this definition is accurate.

Author: How's the revised text?

(Deployments are a replacement for the legacy
{{< glossary_tooltip text="ReplicationController" term_id="replication-controller" >}} API).

A [`StatefulSet`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/) lets you
manage one or more Pods – all running the same application code – that do track state somehow.

> For example, if your workload records data persistently, you can run a StatefulSet that

Reviewer: The key difference between *stateless* and *stateful* could be this: whether the workload records data persistently and collaboratively. It is okay for a Deployment Pod to use PV volumes, that doesn't make it stateful.

Author: I'll have a think if I can come up with a concise explanation that really captures the nuances here.

Author: How's the revised text?

Your code, running in the Pods for that StatefulSet, can replicate data to
other Pods in the same StatefulSet to improve overall resilience.

A [`DaemonSet`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/) defines Pods that provide
facilities that are local to a specific {{< glossary_tooltip text="node" term_id="node" >}};
for example, a driver that lets containers on that node access a storage system. You use a DaemonSet
when the driver, or other node-level service, has to run on the node where it's useful.
Each Pod in a DaemonSet performs a job similar to a system daemon on a classic Unix / POSIX
server.
A DaemonSet might be fundamental to the operation of your cluster,
such as a plugin to let that node access
[cluster networking](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/networking/#how-to-implement-the-kubernetes-network-model),
or it could provide less essential facilities that enhance the container platform you are running.
You can run DaemonSets (and their pods) across every node in your cluster, or across just a subset (for example,
only install the GPU accelerator driver on nodes that have a GPU installed).

> You can use a [`Job`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/) and / or
> a [`CronJob`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/cron-jobs/) to
> define tasks that run to completion and then stop. A Job represents a one-off task,
> whereas each CronJob repeats according to a schedule.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use a [`Job`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/)  to
define a task that runs to completion. You can use a
[`CronJob`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/cron-jobs/) to run
the same Job multiple times according a schedule.
```

And since other workloads have examples, we can say:
For example, data analytics, CI/CD, HPC and AI/ML training applications.

Author: When this merges, you're very welcome to submit a follow-up PR with tweaks.

Reviewer 2: Why not in this PR? It looks like this is new content.

Author: > Why not in this PR?

I'm afraid I'm short on capacity to incorporate all the improvements that are feasible to suggest.

Author: How's the revised text?

---
title: "Workload Resources"
weight: 20
simple_list: true
---

Kubernetes provides several built-in APIs for declarative management of your
{{< glossary_tooltip text="workloads" term_id="workload" >}}
and the components of those workloads.

Ultimately, your applications run as containers inside
{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="Pod" text="Pods" >}}; however, managing individual
Pods would be a lot of effort. For example, if a Pod fails, you probably want to
run a new Pod to replace it. Kubernetes can do that for you.

> You use Kubernetes API to create a workload

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You use the Kubernetes API to create workload objects that represent a higher level abstraction than a Pod
```

> You use Kubernetes API to create a workload
> {{< glossary_tooltip text="object" term_id="object" >}} that represent a higher level

Author: ```suggestion
You use the Kubernetes API to create workload
{{< glossary_tooltip text="object" term_id="object" >}} that represent a higher level
```

abstraction than a Pod, and then the Kubernetes
{{< glossary_tooltip text="control plane" term_id="control-plane" >}} automatically manages
Pod objects on your behalf, based on the specification for the workload object you defined.

> The built-in APIs for managing workloads are:

Reviewer: I'm unclear why the overview of these workload resources is repeated here.

Author: Do you mean, why should https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/ list the different APIs for managing workloads?

The primary aim of this PR is to improve that page specifically; I think the new text improves on the existing autogenerated overview. Right now, if you don't know Kubernetes much and a website takes you to https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/, it's not obvious what you should read or why.

Realistically, https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/ is so basic that people won't hyperlink to it. We should fix that.

Reviewer: Providing overview of workload resources is totally okay to me. What confused me is that the same text now appear in two places. Maybe we can drop the text in the controllers index page?

Author: We could. I kept it because someone might already have hyperlinked to that other page.

Author: (Although we could edit https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/ to not mention terms like Deployment, ReplicaSet, StatefulSet etc, people might link there on the assumption that we do mention those things directly.)

Reviewer 3: I read through the main pages and I agree that the content appears to be somewhat shared between the pages. The Workloads section contains the Pods and Workload Resources folders.
The Workloads index page defines a workload, provide descriptions of the workload resources, and list related tasks.
The Workload Resources index page defines the same workload resources.

Generally, I don't think you need the paragraphs about the workload resources in the Workloads index page. You can assume that readers will move into this folder to read about the workload resources. Any information that is missing from the Workload Resources index page can be moved from the index page.

Does that make sense?

Author: > You can assume that readers will move into this folder to read about the workload resources.

I agree that we **can** assume that. However, the reason for this is something I am (slightly) ashamed about.
I still think that _https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/ is so basic that people won't hyperlink to it_ - and that we should fix that. I want people writing other web pages to see https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/ as something that's useful to link to or to mention to people on Slack, etc.

Author: > Realistically, https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/ is so basic that people won't hyperlink to it.

I'm (slightly) ashamed of this; that's why I want to see it fixed.

weight: 20
---

Kubernetes provides several built-in APIs for declarative management of your
{{< glossary_tooltip text="workloads" term_id="workload" >}}
and the components of those workloads.

You use Kubernetes API to create {{< glossary_tooltip text="object" term_id="object" >}}

> (HTTP resources) that represent these higher level abstractions, and then let the

Reviewer: "higher level" in this context may confuse new users, i.e. why you call them "higher", comparing to what?. Maybe "abstractions" is sufficient.

Author: I reworded.

{{< glossary_tooltip text="control plane" term_id="control-plane" >}} automatically manage
Pods on your behalf, based on the specification for the workload object you defined.

The built-in APIs for managing workloads are:

[`Deployment`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/) and [`ReplicaSet`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/replicaset/)
(replacing the legacy resource
{{< glossary_tooltip text="ReplicationController" term_id="replication-controller" >}}).
`Deployment` is a good fit for managing a stateless application workload on your cluster,
where any {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="Pod" >}} in the `Deployment` is interchangeable
and can be replaced if needed.

A [`StatefulSet`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/) lets you

> run one or more related Pods that do track state somehow. For example, if your workload

Reviewer 4: nit: "related" may give a connotation that they are not the same Pod. I made the following suggestions since the pods of a StatefulSet uses replicas and identical "container spec" (https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/) for its pods
```suggestion
run one or more replicated Pods that do track state somehow. For example, if your workload
```

Author: Hmm, replicated could also mislead readers into thinking they get a feature that Kubernetes doesn't provide.

Author: @reylejano any thoughts on how to avoid that confusion (people thinking that Kubernetes provides a facility for replicating persistent storage)? 

I noticed this was only a nit.

For example, if your workload records data persistently, you can run a `StatefulSet` that

> matches each `Pod` with a [`PersistentVolume`](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/).

Reviewer: "matches" leads to some ambiguity, sounds like there is a selector or regular expression?

```suggestion
associates each `Pod` with a [`PersistentVolume`](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/).
```

> Your code, running in the `Pods` for that `StatefulSet`, can replicate data to

Reviewer: We say `pods` as a resource collection, or `Pod` as a resource type, not `Pods`.

```suggestion
Your code, running in the `Pod`s for that `StatefulSet`, can replicate data to
```

Author: I'm frustrated to see criticism of existing text. This wording has been [reviewed](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/24602#issuecomment-748408719) once already and all I'm doing here is _moving_ it.

https://github.com/kubernetes/website/blame/0b0c6a813abb69e234618d671bc9360631c82dbe/content/en/docs/concepts/workloads/_index.md#L38 shows how this looks on the `main` branch before the PR.

Reviewer: There is no hint showing that these texts are **moved**. In this PR, the whole file is rendered as **new text**.
I'm reviewing the text as is.

Speaking of frustration, I'm feeling the same thing when seeing text shuffled here and there for personal tastes rather than any good reasons. This kind of "improvement" (as refactoring again) is introducing a lot of work for the downstream localization teams. Those people deserve some respects as well.

Author: GitHub doesn't provide a brilliant way to spot when text is moved between files. Sorry about that. It doesn't help much for this particular case but `git diff --color-moved` often does let you see what has moved.

The motivation for the move is because someone totally new to Kubernetes might see https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/ and section overviews like this, where there's no overview at all.

After a few of these, especially if you've been reading for half an hour, you might consider giving up. I still remember that new-user frustration; it's one of the main reasons I started contributing to the docs and why I still do.

Author: I'll mark this resolved.

> other `Pods` in the same `StatefulSet` to improve overall resilience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
other `Pod`s in the same `StatefulSet` to improve overall resilience.
```

Author: This actually doesn't render super well (and this is a good example of when the style guide advice about using code style for API kinds can be problematic).

> A [`DaemonSet`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/) defines `Pods` that provide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [`DaemonSet`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/) defines `Pod`s that provide
```

> facilities that are local to a specific {{< glossary_tooltip text="node" term_id="node" >}}.

Reviewer: DaemonSet are not bound to a single node. 

```suggestion
facilities that are local to some {{< glossary_tooltip text="nodes" term_id="node" >}}.
```

Every time you add a node to your cluster that matches the specification in a `DaemonSet`,
the control plane schedules a `Pod` for that `DaemonSet` onto the new node.

> Each Pod in a `DaemonSet` performs a similar job to a system daemon on a classic Unix / POSIX

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each Pod in a `DaemonSet` performs a job similar to a system daemon on a classic Unix / POSIX
```

server. A `DaemonSet` might be fundamental to the operation of your cluster, such as

> a plugin to run [cluster networking](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/networking/#how-to-implement-the-kubernetes-network-model),

Reviewer: See previous comment.

Author: I replied at https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/37593/files#r1042722162

or it could provide optional behavior that enhances the container platform you are running.

> You can use [`Job`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/) and / or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use a [`Job`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/) and / or
```

> [`CronJob`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/cron-jobs/) to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a [`CronJob`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/cron-jobs/) to
```

> define tasks that run to completion and then stop. A `Job` represents a one-off tasks,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
define tasks that run to completion and then stop. A `Job` represents a one-off task,
```

weight: 20
---

Kubernetes provides several built-in APIs for declarative management of your
{{< glossary_tooltip text="workloads" term_id="workload" >}}
and the components of those workloads.

Ultimately, your applications run as containers inside
{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="Pod" text="Pods" >}}; however, managing individual

> `Pods` would be a lot of effort. For example, if a `Pod` fails, you probably want to

Reviewer: I don't think we have `Pods` anywhere in the docs. We talk about `Pod`, which is a API resource kind. We also talk about `pods`, which is a collection of Pod objects. We don't have `Pods`. WDYT?

run a new `Pod` to replace it. Kubernetes can do that for you.

You use Kubernetes API to create a workload

> {{< glossary_tooltip text="objects" term_id="object" >}} that represent a higher level

Reviewer: nit: singular
```suggestion
{{< glossary_tooltip text="object" term_id="object" >}} that represent a higher level
```

abstraction than a `Pod`, and then the Kubernetes
{{< glossary_tooltip text="control plane" term_id="control-plane" >}} automatically manages
`Pods` on your behalf, based on the specification for the workload object you defined.

The built-in APIs for managing workloads are:

> [`Deployment`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/) and [`ReplicaSet`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/replicaset/)

Reviewer: I don't feel comfortable when talking about Deployment and ReplicaSet at the same abstraction layer, because they are NOT.
